GSoC contributor blog for Unreleased Production changes probe (#6507)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/07/16/2023-07-16-unreleased-production-changes-probe.adoc

---
layout: post
title: Unreleased Production Changes Probe
tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2023
- healthscore
- probes
- plugin
authors:
- jagruti
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2023/jagruti/blog_20230702.png
sig:
- gsoc
---

== Introduction

A bug fix, security fix, or new features are of no use unless they are released.

A production release not only provides users with an updated plugin, but also gives the developers a chance to get feedback on their work.

The "unreleased production changes" probe looks for unreleased commits in the production files.

If an unreleased file is found in the production path, the probe returns a failure message.
If no unreleased file is found, it returns a success message.

NOTE: For now, we are focusing on Maven production files (`pom.xml` and `src/main` folder). 

This is my first probe that went live as a GSoC contributor.

== Importance of the probe
The probe aims to identify unreleased production commits in  Maven production files.

Finding an unreleased production file can mean one or more of the following:

> * There might be unreleased security fixes that should be released as soon as possible.
> * There might be unreleased features requested by active users to improve the usefulness of the plugin.
> * The plugin maintainer may be inactive or too busy to further develop the plugin.
> This can indicate the plugin needs a new maintainer, and it should be up for adoption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There are unreleased security fixes that should be released as soon as possible.
* There are unreleased features requested that would improve the usefulness of the plugin.
* The plugin maintainer may be inactive or too busy to further develop the plugin.
This could indicate the plugin needs a new maintainer and should be up for adoption.
```
suggestion for sentence wording

== Challenges
Learning to use link:https://www.eclipse.org/jgit/[JGit], a Java library that implements a Git version control system, was one of the biggest challenges I faced when working on this probe.

Since I was not familiar with Git hierarchy, I struggled to find the parent of a child commit using JGit.

In the end, my mentors suggested a pair programming session to review the thinking process involved in implementing such a probe.

I am thankful for their kindness and patience.

== Outcome
When unreleased production files are found, the probe returns a failure status and the list of filenames.

When no unreleased production file is found, the probe returns a success message.

== Learning

> I hope there comes a day when test cases becomes my friends, but I don't see this happening anytime soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I hope there comes a day when test cases become my friends, but I don't see this happening anytime soon.
```

> Mentors suggested I should start with writing the test cases to reproduce the probe requirement, and later add code to pass each of the test cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mentors suggested I should start with writing the test cases to reproduce the probe requirement(s), and later add code to pass each of the test cases.
```
